README.md, before:

# esfstats - elasticsearch fields statistics

esfstats is a commandline command (Python3 program) that extracts some statistics regarding field coverage from an elasticsearch index.

## Usage

```
esfstats
        required arguments:
          -index INDEX  elasticsearch index to use (default: None)
          -type TYPE    elasticsearch index (document) type to use (default: None)

        optional arguments:
          -h, --help    show this help message and exit
          -host HOST    hostname or IP address of the elasticsearch instance to use (default: localhost)
          -port PORT    port of the elasticsearch instance to use (default: 9200)
          -marc         ignore MARC indicator (default: False)
          -csv-output   prints the output as pure CSV data (all values are quoted)
                        (default: False)
```

* example:
    ```
    esfstats -host [HOSTNAME OF YOUR ELASTICSEARCH INSTANCE] -index [YOUR ELASTICSEARCH INDEX] -type [DOCUMENT TYPE OF THE ELEASTICSEARCH INDEX] > [OUTPUT STATISTICS DOCUMENT]
    ```

## Requirements

[elasticsearch-py](http://elasticsearch-py.rtfd.org/)

e.g.
```
apt-get install python-elasticsearch
```

## Run

* install elasticsearch-py
* clone this git repo or just download the esfstats.py file
* run ./esfstats.py
* for a hackish way to use esfstats system-wide, copy to /usr/local/bin

### Install system-wide via pip

* via pip:
    ```
    sudo -H pip3 install --upgrade [ABSOLUTE PATH TO YOUR LOCAL GIT REPOSITORY OF ESFSTATS]
    ```
    (which provides you ```esfstats``` as a system-wide commandline command)

## Description

(of the column headers of a resulting statistic)

### ... in English

#### existing
* number of records that contain this field (path), i.e., field coverage

#### %
* ^ percentage of 'existing'
* (existing / Total Records * 100)

#### notexisting
* number of records that do not contain this field (path)

#### !%
* ^ percentage of 'notexisting'
* (not existing / Total Records * 100)

#### occurrence
* total count of the occurrence of this field (path) over all records, i.e., an indicator for field where multiple values are allowed

#### unique (appr.)
* number of unique/distinct values of this field (path), i.e., cardinality
* note: this value is an approximated value

#### field name
* the field (path) of this statistic line

### ... in German

Erklärung der Spaltenköpfe

#### existing
* gibt an, wieviele Felder diesen Pfades existieren.

#### %
* existing in Prozent
* existing / Total Records * 100

#### notexisting
* gibt an, wieviele Rekords nicht über diesen Pfad verfügen

#### !%
* notexisting in Prozent
* notexisting / Total Records * 100)

#### occurrence
* gibt an, wieviele Werte diesen Pfades vorhanden sind. (Mehrfachbelegung)

#### unique (appr.)
* gibt an, wieviele einzigartige Werte man in diesem Pfad findet
* Hinweis: dieser Wert ist nur angenähert berechnet, d.h., er ist u.U. ungenau

#### field name
* Der Pfad zu den analysierten Werten

Commit message:

fixed processing for '-marc' option

README.md, after:

# esfstats - elasticsearch fields statistics

esfstats is a commandline command (Python3 program) that extracts some statistics regarding field coverage from an elasticsearch index.

## Usage

```
esfstats
        required arguments:
          -index INDEX  elasticsearch index to use (default: None)
          -type TYPE    elasticsearch index (document) type to use (default: None)

        optional arguments:
          -h, --help    show this help message and exit
          -host HOST    hostname or IP address of the elasticsearch instance to use (default: localhost)
          -port PORT    port of the elasticsearch instance to use (default: 9200)
          -marc         ignore MARC indicator, i.e., combine only MARC tag + MARC code (valid/applicable for input generated with help of xbib/marc (https://github.com/xbib/marc) or input MARC JSON records that follow this structure) (default: False)
          -csv-output   prints the output as pure CSV data (all values are quoted)
                        (default: False)
```

* example:
    ```
    esfstats -host [HOSTNAME OF YOUR ELASTICSEARCH INSTANCE] -index [YOUR ELASTICSEARCH INDEX] -type [DOCUMENT TYPE OF THE ELEASTICSEARCH INDEX] > [OUTPUT STATISTICS DOCUMENT]
    ```

### Note

When utilising this commandline command with argument '-marc' the input JSON records need to be generated with help of [xbib/marc](https://github.com/xbib/marc) (e.g. via [marc2jsonl](https://github.com/slub/marc2jsonl)) or they need to follow at least this structure (otherwise the result will lead to unexpected behaviour).

## Requirements

[elasticsearch-py](http://elasticsearch-py.rtfd.org/)

e.g.
```
apt-get install python-elasticsearch
```

## Run

* install elasticsearch-py
* clone this git repo or just download the esfstats.py file
* run ./esfstats.py
* for a hackish way to use esfstats system-wide, copy to /usr/local/bin

### Install system-wide via pip

* via pip:
    ```
    sudo -H pip3 install --upgrade [ABSOLUTE PATH TO YOUR LOCAL GIT REPOSITORY OF ESFSTATS]
    ```
    (which provides you ```esfstats``` as a system-wide commandline command)

## Description

(of the column headers of a resulting statistic)

### ... in English

#### existing
* number of records that contain this field (path), i.e., field coverage

#### %
* ^ percentage of 'existing'
* (existing / Total Records * 100)

#### notexisting
* number of records that do not contain this field (path)

#### !%
* ^ percentage of 'notexisting'
* (not existing / Total Records * 100)

#### occurrence
* total count of the occurrence of this field (path) over all records, i.e., an indicator for field where multiple values are allowed

#### unique (appr.)
* number of unique/distinct values of this field (path), i.e., cardinality
* note: this value is an approximated value

#### field name
* the field (path) of this statistic line

### ... in German

Erklärung der Spaltenköpfe

#### existing
* gibt an, wieviele Felder diesen Pfades existieren.

#### %
* existing in Prozent
* existing / Total Records * 100

#### notexisting
* gibt an, wieviele Rekords nicht über diesen Pfad verfügen

#### !%
* notexisting in Prozent
* notexisting / Total Records * 100)

#### occurrence
* gibt an, wieviele Werte diesen Pfades vorhanden sind. (Mehrfachbelegung)

#### unique (appr.)
* gibt an, wieviele einzigartige Werte man in diesem Pfad findet
* Hinweis: dieser Wert ist nur angenähert berechnet, d.h., er ist u.U. ungenau

#### field name
* Der Pfad zu den analysierten Werten
